---
layout: exam_info
num: e01
ready: true
desc: "Midterm-1 Exam"
exam_date: 2017-04-26 14:00:00.00-7
---
## Instructions for the exam

* You may bring one 8.5" x 11" piece of paper with notes on both sides. This paper will be collected along with your exam, so make your own copy if you would like to keep it.
* No calculators or phones are allowed in the exam 
* No other notes or books are allowed
* There are no makeups for this exam 
* You must write your name on every single sheet of paper including your notes
* We will provide you with scratch paper
* We will provide you the table of operator precedence

## Post exam information



## Reference material
You are expected to know the material from the following lectures, labs and homeworks:

* Lecture 1 to lecture 7 , including all code implemented in class, midterm will exclude test driven development in lecture 7 but wil include the nested for loop examples covered in that lecture
* Homework 1 to 6
* Labs 0 to 2

## Practice problems

In addition to all the homeworks, labs and lectures, you may use the problems in the following document to practice:
[Midterm 1 Practice Problems](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1-hpeFpfTvdcvNeTgvdJpWsLrkXrpdrq4-ZA1Dg7fC6w/edit?usp=sharing)

## Past exams
You may also refer to all the past exams. Please note that some questions on these exams may refer to labs that you have not completed so far. You will only be asked questions related to the labs you have completed. The past exams should however provide some information on the expected difficulty and approximate format of the exam. Please note that there may be differences in content as well.

* The exam quation paper is available here: [Midterm-1 WI17](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B__7284Jee0fS1hYSW1yMUpYd2s/view?usp=sharing)
	* Exam statistics: The mean of the exam was 85.57%, standard deviation 9.68%. Highest score 100%
* [Spring'10](http://www.cs.ucsb.edu/~pconrad/cs16/10S/exams/)
* [Winter'10](http://www.cs.ucsb.edu/~pconrad/cs16/10W/exams/)
* [Fall'09](http://www.cs.ucsb.edu/~pconrad/cs16/09F/exams)

## Midterm Study Guide

* Write the skeleton of a simple C++ program - see the hello world example covered in lecture
* Write code that involves passing parameters to main
* Read and write to standard input, output and error with cin, cout, cerr - you should be able to write code that uses these concepts, identify the difference between cout and cerr, difference between cout, exit and return 
* Simple unix commands (covered in labs): cp, mkdir, ls, pwd, cd
* An understanding of what compilers are, the compilation and execution process of C++ programs: 
	* What is g++? What are the inputs and outputs ?
	* What is the difference between compiling and running a C++ program?
	* How can you ask g++ to use the c++11 libraries when compiling your C++ program
	* What are compile-time errors?
	* What are run-time errors?
	
* The ability to use variables and basic data types in the type of programs covered in class:
	* Identify valid and invalid ways to name variables in C++ - Please refer to book on this
	* Identify invalid use of variables: For example using a variable in an expression or assignment before declaring it
	* Different ways of initializing variable: 
		```
			int x =10; int x(10); cin>>x;
		```
	* Difference between variable declaration and initialization.
	* What is the default value given to uninitialized variables in C++ and why this can be a problem

* The ability to debug and write code that involves flow control structures taught in class and used in labs. Pay attention to syntax, and the ability to use each appropriately to solve problems similar to those provided in the labs
	* If else statements, multiway if-else statements
	* For, while and do-while loops, nested for loops (used in lab02)
	* Identify the occurance of infinite loops

* Data representation:
	* Representing unsigned numbers using positional encoding in different bases: binary, hex, decimal 
	* Internal vs. external representation of data on a computer
	* Conversion between different representations
	* What is signed vs unsigned integer representation
	* Signed representation used on modern computers: two's complement
	* The big idea: bits can represent ANYTHING. With n bits we can represent at most 2^N things. 
		* Apply above idea to represent other data (like characters, colors, and so on) in binary
		* Apply the above idea to determine the range of values that can be represented using a particular encoding scheme
		* Apply the above idea to determine the minimum number of bits required to represent a finite set of data or numbers

	* How does the data type of a variable determine its representation on a computer?

* Identify what basic git commands do, in particular
	* git clone
	* git add
	* git commit
	* git push

* Write, evaluate and simulate the run-time behavior of C++ expressions
	* Operator precedence, associativity (You don't have to learn the precendence table, you should just know how to apply it to evaluate expressions)
	* Assignment statements and assignment operator used within an expression
	* Evaluate compound Boolean expressions as practiced on homeworks
	* What evaluates to true? What evaluates to false?

* File I/O - you should be able to understand and debug code that uses file i/o concepts from lab01
	* Opening a file: open()
	* Reading a line from a file: getline()
	* Reading until the end of file is reached
	* Detecting failures
	* Printing error messages to standard error with cerr
	* When do we use exit() and why?


* Exhibit an understanding of why we are using github in this class.
* Debugging: Given a C++ program, identify and correct:
	* Compile-time and run-time errors
	* Incorrect program behavior


