---
layout: exam_info
num: e02
ready: true
desc: "Midterm-2 Exam"
exam_date: 2017-05-17 14:00:00.00-7
---

## Instructions for the exam (please note that instructions for miderm 2 are different from midterm 1)

* You may NOT bring any notes with you to the exam. Instead we ask that you collaborate with your classmates and the tutors before the exam to develop a commmon set of notes via an online collaborative document
* Creating the collaborative notes document: Please add information that you would like to have on the exam to this [COLLABORATIVE DOCUMENT](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ctpQAlAiTz5L8m8m9ibGlQG9Jcir4xmIUFiknvRR0wk/edit?usp=sharing). A subset of the information will be made available to you on the exam as exam notes.
* I will select information from the above collaborative document as notes and provide it to you on the exam. These notes will NOT include solutions to programming assignments from labs or HWs. Everyone will get the same set of notes on the exam.  
* No calculators or phones are allowed in the exam 
* You may not bring ANY notes or books 
* There are no makeups for this exam 
* You must write your name on every single sheet of paper including your notes
* We will provide you with scratch paper
* We will provide you the table of operator precedence
* The format of the exam will be similar to midterm 1

* You will be provided with the these [exam notes]( 
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1reYOFGbQjos9PJIIVppPSorxpzcMSS9YfdP9MNWnesI/edit?usp=sharing
 )

## Reference material
You are expected to know the material from the following lectures, labs and homeworks. Please be sure to review the code from lecture which can be found in the lecture notes (different from lecture slides)

* [Lecture 1](https://ucsb-cs16-sp17.github.io/lectures/lect01/) to [lecture 14](https://ucsb-cs16-sp17.github.io/lectures/lect14/) 
with the exception of file IO, operator precedence (lectures 4 and 5), makefiles and tdd. You will be tested on these topics on the final exam. The main emphasis will be on topics covered after midterm 1 (lecture 8 to lecture 14), with the exception of makefiles and tdd. In other words, you will be primarily tested on pointers, references, arrays, structs, pointers to basic or struct type, and linked lists. A full list is provided later in this document.
* Homeworks 1 to 11, with emphasis on homeworks 7 to 11
* Labs 3 to 6 

* Pracice problem: Please go through the problems in our [Concept Inventory](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/0B1z9k2M7uTvJaE9rR0F0OVV5ZWs?usp=sharing) for additional preparation. We recommend that you try these problems after you have studied/contributed to the collaborative notes (see above) and gone through the labs, homeworks and lectures.


## Midterm Study Guide

* Memory [lec 08](/lectures/lect08/), [lec 12](/lectures/lect12/)
    * Basic model of memory (addressable bytes) [lec 08](/lectures/lect08/), slides 1-6
    * Representing multi-byte data like ints, address of multi-byte variables, [lec 08](/lectures/lect08/), slides 1-6
    * Program layout in memory during runtime [lec 12](/lectures/lect12/), slides 1-2
    * Interaction of programs with memory (run-time stack vs. heap) (general theme in all the following topics, almost every lecture talks about this)


* Arrays: [hw 08](/hwk/h08/),  [lab 04](/lab/lab04/), [lec 08](/lectures/lect08/), [lec 09](/lectures/lect09/), [lec11](/lectures/lect11/)
    * declaration [lec 08](/lectures/lect08/)
    * initialization [lec 08](/lectures/lect08/)
    * representation in memory [lec 08](/lectures/lect08/)
    * accessng elements via index-based and range-based for loops [lec 08](/lectures/lect08/) 
    * passing arrays to functions [lec 09](/lectures/lect09/), [lec11](/lectures/lect11/)
    * **tracing/writing code involving arrays and showing program dynamics via pointer diagrams** 

* Pointers: [hw 10](/hwk/h10/),  [lab 05](/lab/lab05/), [lec 09](/lectures/lect09/)
    * purpose
    * declaration, size of a pointer
    * initialization to null value, initialization using '&' operator
    * pointer diagrams showing relationship between pointer and pointee
    * derefencing pointers using the '*' operator
    * assignment involving pointers: making two pointers point to the same object
    * changing where a pointer points to
    * **tracing/writing code involving pointers and showing program dynamics via pointer diagrams** 

* References: [hw 08](/hwk/h08/), [lab 05](/lab/lab05/), [lec 10](/lectures/lect10/)
    * Definition
    * Assignment
    * Call by reference
    * Differences between pointers and references (when would you use each and why) 
    * **tracing/writing code involving pointers, references and showing program dynamics via pointer diagrams** 

* Structs: [hw 10](/hwk/h10/), [lab 05](/lab/lab05/), [lec 10](/lectures/lect10/), [lec 13](/lectures/lect13/), also review [code covered in lec 11](https://github.com/ucsb-cs16-wi17/lecture-02-16)
    * Defining a struct as a data type [lec 10](/lectures/lect10/)
    * Declaring objects of struct on the stack [lec 10](/lectures/lect10/)
    * Accessing memory variables using the dot (.) operator [lec 10](/lectures/lect10/)
    * Pointers to structure (declaration and initialization) [lec 10](/lectures/lect10/), concept used a lot in the context on linked lists [lec 12](/lectures/lect12/) and [lec 13](/lectures/lect13/)
    * References to structure [See code covered in lec 11](https://github.com/ucsb-cs16-wi17/lecture-02-16), [hw problem reviewed in lec 13](/lectures/lect13/)
    * Arrays of structs [See code covered in lec 11](https://github.com/ucsb-cs16-wi17/lecture-02-16), [hw problem reviewed in lec 13](/lectures/lect13/)
    * Passing structs to functions by value, address and reference [See code covered in lec 11](https://github.com/ucsb-cs16-wi17/lecture-02-16), [hw problem reviewed in lec 13](/lectures/lect13/)
    * Passing arrays of structs to functions [See code covered in lec 11](https://github.com/ucsb-cs16-wi17/lecture-02-16), [hw problem reviewed in lec 13](/lectures/lect13/)
    * **tracing/writing code involving structs, pointers and references to structs, arrays of structs and showing program dynamics via pointer diagrams** 

* Dynamic Memory allocation [hw 11](/hwk/h11/), [lab 06](/lab/lab06/), [lec 10](/lectures/lect10/), [lec 12](/lectures/lect12/), [lec 13](/lectures/lect13/)
    * Heap [lec 12](/lectures/lect12/)
    * New and delete [lec 12](/lectures/lect12/)
    * Dynamic arrays [lec 12](/lectures/lect12/)
    * Segfaults [lec 10](/lectures/lect10/)
    * Memory leaks [lec 13](/lectures/lect13/)
    * Dangling pointer
    * **tracing/writing code and showing evolution of data on heap and stack in diagrams** 

* Linked-lists [hw 11](/hwk/h11/), [lab 06](/lab/lab06/), [lec 12](/lectures/lect12/), [lec 13](/lectures/lect13/)
    * What is the purpose of a linked list, contrast with arrays [lec 12](/lectures/lect12/)
    * Accessing member variables of a node using a pointer to a node [lec 12](/lectures/lect12/)
    * Keeping track of the head and tail of the list (in a separate structure)
    * Building Linked list (why do nodes in a linked list contain pointer member variables?) [lec 12](/lectures/lect12/), be sure to review [code covered in lecture](https://github.com/ucsb-cs16-wi17/lecture-02-21)
    * Iterating through linked list using traversal pointers [lec 13](/lectures/lect13/)
    * Deleting linked list [lec 13](/lectures/lect13/)
    * Stack vs heap 
    * **tracing/writing code involving linked-lists and showing program dynamics via pointer diagrams** 


* Program translation [lec 11](/lectures/lect11/)
    * Steps (preprocessing, compiling, linking)
    * Arguments to g++ (creating objectfiles, differences between object files and executable)



## Past exams
You may also refer to all the past exams. Please note that some questions on these exams may refer to labs that you have not completed so far. You will only be asked questions related to the labs you have completed. The past exams should however provide some information on the expected difficulty and approximate format of the exam. Please note that there may be differences in content as well.

* [Winter'17](https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B1z9k2M7uTvJQlVPZnZMM2JiQkk)
* [Spring'10](http://www.cs.ucsb.edu/~pconrad/cs16/10S/exams/)
* [Winter'10](http://www.cs.ucsb.edu/~pconrad/cs16/10W/exams/)
* [Fall'09](http://www.cs.ucsb.edu/~pconrad/cs16/09F/exams)

## Post exam information 

