---
layout: exam_info
num: e03
ready: true
desc: "Final Exam"
exam_date: 2017-06-12 16:00:00.00-7
---


# Final Exam (3 hours)

## Seating arrangement
You may be in one of two exam halls based on your last name


Please check the location of your exam hall prior to the time of the exam.
*You must leave a one seat gap when seating yourself in the exam hall*

## Instructions for the exam

* You may bring one 8.5" x 11" piece of paper with notes on both sides. This paper will be collected along with your exam, so make your own copy if you would like to keep it.
* No calculators or phones are allowed in the exam 
* No other notes or books are allowed
* There are no makeups for this exam 
* You must write your name on every single sheet of paper including your notes
* We will provide you with scratch paper

## Exam topics

You are expected to know all the material covered in class. Most of the emphasis will be on topics covered in midterm 2 and post midterm 2 - such as dynamic memory allocation, heap vs stack, linked-lists, iteration through lists, pointer arithmetic, strings and recursion on linked-lists and strings

You must know all material covered in lecture slides as well homworks 1-14, labs 00- lab08. Special emphasis will be placed in labs 6-8. 


* Pracice problem: Please go through the problems in our [Concept Inventory](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/0B1z9k2M7uTvJaE9rR0F0OVV5ZWs?usp=sharing) for additional preparation. 

Please also go through the study guides for the past two midterms.

In terms of the format of the paper - expect to see a significant number of multiple choice questions on the more basic concepts, drawing pointer and stack diagrams and coding questions related to labs.

Here are some important topics that you should definitely expect questions on:

1. Flow control if-else statements
2. Data types and declarations
3. While loops
4. For loops
5. Evaluating expressions
6. Data representation
7. Arrays
8. Passing parameters to functions
9. Passing arrays to functions and returning arrays from functions
10. Pointers
11. Structs
12. Pointers and structs
13. Pointers and arrays
14. Arrays of structs
15. Dynamic Memory Allocation
16. Linked-lists
17. Strings
18. Iteration through lists
19. RECURSION!!!! on linked lists and strings
