---
num: "h08"
desc: "Chapter 7: Arrays and Chapter 9 Pointers"
ready: false 
assigned: 2017-04-24 14:00:00.00-7:00
due: 2017-05-01 14:00:00.00-7:00
---
{% include no_staples_box.html %}
Read Chapter 7.1 - 7.2 up to page 397 (If you do not have a copy of the textbook yet, there is one on reserve at the library under "COMP000-STAFF - Permanent Reserve").

<b>PLEASE MARK YOUR HOMEWORK CLEARLY, REGARDLESS OF IF YOU WRITE IT OUT IN INK OR PENCIL!<br/>
FOR BEST RESULTS, PRINT THIS PAGE AS A PDF, THEN PRINT THE PDF</b>

Move pointer questions from h07 here.
1.(5 pts) What is the output of the following code? If there's an error that will not allow an output, point it out. Briefly justify your answer.

<div markdown="1">
```cpp
int arr[5];
for (int i = 0; i < 5; i++) {
	if (i < 3) arr[i] = 'a';
	else arr[i] = 'z';
	cout << arr[i] << endl;  }
```
</div>
<div style="margin-bottom:4em"></div>
2.(5 pts) What is the output of the following code? If there's an error that will not allow an output, point it out.

<div markdown="1">
```cpp
int arr[7] = {5};
for (int i = 0; i < 7; i++)
	cout << arr[i] + i <<" "; 
```
</div>
<div style="margin-bottom:4em"></div>
3.(5 pts) What is the output of the following code? If there's an error that will not allow an output, point it out.

<div markdown="1">
```cpp
int codes[] = {44, 66, 83, 973, -977};
for (int count : codes) {
	if ( (count/2) < 50 )
		cout << count << endl;
	else cout << "invalid" << endl; }
```
</div>

<div class="pagebreak"></div>

4.(5 pts) Draw a diagram to show how the content of the array 'nums' changes in memory after every line of the following code is executed. Start by showing the elements of the array in memory when the array is initialized. Every time the element of an array changes, you may indicate the change by crossing out the old value and writing in the new value.

<div markdown="1">
```cpp
int nums[] = {44, 66, 83};
int tmp = nums[0];
nums[0] = nums[1];
nums[1] = nums[2];
nums[2]= tmp;
```
</div>

5.(5 pts) Describe in your own words what the code in the previous question does. Your description of the code should be as abstract as possible. For example.."the above code sorts the elements of the array in ascending order..."

<div style="margin-bottom:8em"></div>	

6.(10 pts) Write the definition of a function named 'reverse' that takes two parameters: an integer array and the number of elements of the array. The function should reverse the order of elements of the array. The function should not return anything. See below for an example of expected outcome when the reverse function is called:

<div markdown="1">
```cpp
int nums[] = {10,20,30,40,50};
reverse(nums, 5);// The order of elements should be reversed after this
for(int i=0;i<5;i++)
   cout<< nums[i]<<" "
```
</div>
The output of the above code should be: 50 40 30 20 10
	
