---
num: "h10"
desc: "Chapter 10: Pointers"
ready: false
assigned: 2017-05-01 14:00:00.00-7:00
due: 2017-05-08 14:00:00.00-7:00
---
Reading: Read Chapter 10.1. Also read this tutorial on pointers and memory from Stanford CS library (pages 1-8, 11-23) [http://cslibrary.stanford.edu/102/PointersAndMemory.pdf](http://cslibrary.stanford.edu/102/PointersAndMemory.pdf). <b>PLEASE MARK YOUR HOMEWORK CLEARLY, REGARDLESS OF IF YOU WRITE IT OUT IN INK OR PENCIL!</b>

1.(4 pts) List two reasons why you might choose to pass parameters to a function by address or reference, rather than by value in your C++ programs.
<div style="margin-bottom:4em"></div>

2.(6 pts) Draw a pointer diagram to demonstrate how the state of memory changes as the following code is executed. Cross out old values/arrows and draw new ones. Is this program likely to result in a segmentation fault? If so, why?
<div style="margin-bottom:1em"></div>

<div markdown="1">
```
   int num = 10, *ptr1 = &num, *ptr2=0;
   if (ptr2) ptr1 = ptr2;
   else if(ptr1) ptr2 = ptr1;
   (*ptr1)++;
```   

</div>

3.(8 pts) On page 14 of the "Pointers and Memory" handout there is a reference to the "Amperand (&)" Bug in the TAB() function. Draw a trace of the local variables of the functions Victim() and TAB() on the run-time stack as these functions are executed. Your diagram should be similar to the one provided on page 13. Your diagram should depict exactly three instances in program execution - T1: Right after the first statement of Victim(), T2: right before the return statement in TAB(), T3: Right after the call to TAB(). Use your diagram to explain the "Amperand (&)" bug and why it is likely to lead to a runtime error when the last line of the Victim() is executed?
<div style="margin-bottom:20em"></div>

<div class="pagebreak"></div>

4.(8 pts) Write the definition of a structure type called UndergradStudents. This structure should contain student ID numbers, first and last names, major, and GPA scores for each undergraduate year. 
<div style="margin-bottom:8em"></div>

5.(14 pts) Write a program that uses the definition of the structure UndergradStudents from the previous question to *declare* and then *initialize* an array of 3 objects of this structure (hint: you can do this with the same approach you define/initialize an array of any other type). You **must initialize the values in the program, not by user input**.  The initial values are shown in the table below. Then write the definition of a function with the signature <code> void printRecords(struct UndergradStudents *records, int numrecords);</code> The function should print out the values of the array of objects passed to it as shown in the sample below, along with each student's AVERAGE GPA score (calculated to a precision of 2 decimal places). You **must use a loop to print the output**. Your program should appropriately call the printRecords() function to print the student records and the average GPA.

<div markdown="1">
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---
|ID | First name| Last Name| Major | GPA Yr1|  GPA Yr2| GPA Yr3| GPA Yr4
|1 | Joe | Shmoe | EE | 3.8 | 3.3 | 3.4 | 3.9
|2 | Macy | Chen | CS | 3.9 | 3.9 | 4.0 | 4.0
|3 | Peter | Patrick | ME | 3.8 | 3.0 | 2.4 | 1.9

OUTPUT:

```
These are the student records:
ID# 1, Shmoe, Joe, Major: EE, Average GPA: 3.60
ID# 2, Chen, Macy, Major: CS, Average GPA: 3.95
ID# 3, Pan, Patrick, Major: ME, Average GPA: 2.77
```
</div>
